---
id: sc3050
sidebar_position: 4
title: SC3050 - Advanced Computer Architecture
---





import ModuleRatingsSummary from '@site/src/components/ModuleRatingsSummary';

<ModuleRatingsSummary 
  lectureClarity={4}
  contentRelevance={5}
  contentDifficulty={3}
  overallWorkload={3}
  teamDependency={1}
/>

## Course Summary

SC3050 builds upon the content taught in SC1006, providing much needed clarity and motivation behind the content taught in SC1006.

The course is taught by Dr Smitha for the 1st half, and Dr Liu Weichen for the 2nd half. Both profs lecture with great clarity and motivates the concepts very well.

The notes are organised and ordered well, with important concepts and definitions highlighted. 

The tutorial questions are well motivated - special note that the tutorials that Dr Smitha conducts expand upon the content taught in the lecture to challenge us to think more critically about the content.

It is no exaggeration to claim that SC3050 may be the most well taught course in CCDS (as of 2025).

Topics covered:

Module-1: Introduction and Background: Review of basic computer architecture, Technology trend and design goals, Performance metrics and performance enhancement techniques, Power dissipation in processors, power metrics, and low-power design techniques.

Module-2: Instruction Set Architecture Design: Instruction set design, implementation and performance perspectives, relative advantages of RISC and CISC instruction sets.

Module-3: Micro-architecture Design: Single-cycle data path design, Pipeline data-path design.

Module-4: Instruction-Level Parallelism: Concept and examples of data-dependence, Challenges in ILP realization, Pipeline hazards and their solutions, Data forwarding, Register renaming, Reordering of instructions, Out-of-order execution, Branch prediction, dynamic scheduling, Limitations of scalar pipelines, VLIW and superscalar processors, Instruction, data and memory-flow challenges in superscalar and out-of-order processors.

Module-5: Memory Systems: Memory hierarchy, Cache design considerations, instruction vs. data caches, write-policy and replacement policy, analysis of cache performance, and cache design for performance enhancement.

Module-6: GPU ArchitectureandInternal: Motivation for GPU, Evolution of GPU architecture, GPGPU and GPU Programming with CUDA； Streaming Multiprocessor, Streaming Processor, Warp, and Warp scheduler operation, Resource allocation.

Module-7: Data-Level and Thread-Level Parallelism: Introduction to vector architecture, SIMD instruction set extensions; Motivation for multicore and many-core systems, Amdahl’s law under power constraint, Challenges in efficient multi-core system design, Cache coherence problem.

Module-8 (e-learning module, non-examinable): Other Emerging Computing Trends: Application specific architectures: ASIP. FPGA and ASIC, Heterogeneous multicore platform, Introduction to domain-specific computing, Comparison of performance and power consumption of general-purpose processors, DSP, GPU, FPGA and ASIC.

## Workload

The workload is manageable, with biweekly lab sessions with lab quizzes at the end of the session to prepare for.

The lab sessions will become more demanding for the during the 4th and 5th lab. Recommend to preread the labs before hand to have time to do the lab quizzes.

## Projects

Final exam and lab quizzes only. 
The lab quizzes can test lecture content, but most question focus on the lab topic for the week.

## Tips to Do Well

Try drawing process maps, visualizing the flow. Writing/rearrangement of assembly code. Revise throughly for the lab quizzes, ask questions if confused, course coordinator is really friendly and great

*Written by CZY*
