---
id: sc4015
sidebar_position: 4
title: SC4015 - Cyber Physical System Security
---

import ModuleRatingsSummary from '@site/src/components/ModuleRatingsSummary';

<ModuleRatingsSummary 
  lectureClarity={3}
  contentRelevance={3}
  contentDifficulty={4}
  overallWorkload={3}
  teamDependency={2}
/>

## Course Summary

The course covers higher level concepts on security, in the Internet-of-Things context. It covers locating attack surfaces, a bit of cryptography and some common protocols that IoT devices communicate with.

## Workload

The course has tutorials right after lectures (at the time of writing, check STARS!) which means 3 hours of back-to-back classes. While lecture attendance is not necessary, tutorial sometimes start earlier if the lecture content for the day has already been completed. It has a lab component in the second half which consists of two 2-4 hour lab sessions (frequently overflowing the allocated time slot, again, check STARS!).

## Projects

There are 2 quizzes worth 10% each at week 8 and week 10. There is a project released after the second lab worth 20% that isn't too hard to finish. Lab report consists of 10% with the final 50% being a closed book exam.

## Tips to Do Well

Be curious and ask questions to the lecturer. The lecture can feel boring but a good grasp of the vocabulary will get you 80% of the way there in the quiz.
Consider skimming through future slides before quiz, vocabulary introduced there is likely NOT the answer during the quiz.

*Written by CWX*
