---
id: sc4010
sidebar_position: 4
title: SC4010 - Applied Cryptography
---





import ModuleRatingsSummary from '@site/src/components/ModuleRatingsSummary';

<ModuleRatingsSummary 
  lectureClarity={3}
  contentRelevance={4}
  contentDifficulty={4}
  overallWorkload={3}
  teamDependency={2}
/>

## Course Summary

Professor Tay Kian Boon teaches this course and it is about the basics of cryptography and cybersecurity. There are a few topics that require calculations but it is not anything advanced as long as the method and logic are understood correctly. Tutorials are mainly focused on case studies and some attacks such as birthday and side channel attacks.

The topics taught in this course include:
1) Stream Ciphers
2) Block Ciphers
5) Hash Functions
6) Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange
7) RSA (Rivest–Shamir–Adleman)
8) DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm)
9) Elliptic Curve Cryptography

## Workload

The overall workload for this course is manageable as long as you are on track. It is advisable to join the tutorial sessions for the explanation and qna as the answer key given are very short so it may be confusing at times. You can start the project as soon as you find your partner but halfway through the course, the prof will share a file about possible topics you can do for the project.

## Projects

The course structure is as follows:
Quiz 1 (40%)
Quiz 2 (40%)
Project (20%) (2 people in a team)

For the project, the team can present about anything related to the topics. They can do 1 big project or 2 small projects. Later on, they will have to present in front of the prof (submission of code depends on whether the prof wants to see the code or not). For the easier topics, the prof will expect that we do something more 'wow' to impress him. It will be easier to score marks if a harder topic such as quantum computing is used but do keep in mind that the prof will ask lots of questions during the presentation.

## Tips to Do Well

The quizzes hold much more weightage so it is better to focus on them. They can be quite challenging and out of scope so it is better to understand fundamentally about the topics taught. 
Do the tutorials and ask prof questions during the tutorial sessions. 

For the project, ensure that you completely understand how it works and why you do those things as the prof may ask these type of questions. Also if you and your partner decides to do 2 small projects, make sure that you both understand each others project as the prof may ask you about your partner's project.

*Written by MS*
