---
id: sc4020
sidebar_position: 4
title: SC4020 - Data Analytics and Mining
---





import ModuleRatingsSummary from '@site/src/components/ModuleRatingsSummary';

<ModuleRatingsSummary 
  lectureClarity={3}
  contentRelevance={2}
  contentDifficulty={2}
  overallWorkload={3}
  teamDependency={3}
/>

## Course Summary

Taught by Lin Guosheng for the first half and Cong Gao for the second. 

Topics in the first half are mostly algorithms, such as K Means, PageRank, GNN Calculations, Min Hashing, Graph Community Algorithms. In the second half would touch on data mining techniques such as Apriori, Decision Trees, Recommendation Systems, Data Handling. 

The topics in this course touches different areas but not so indepth, and also are abit outdated. Understanding the algorithms for the first half is not so bad, doing tutorials and PYP helps alot in understanding.

The second half can be dry as there are alot of rules and facts, plus Prof Cong Gao can be quite hard to understand.

## Workload

2 Projects worth 20%, with finals 60%. Heavier at the first 3 weeks of the second half as they are more in content and harder to understand.

## Projects

Form a group of 4/5 - Can choose teammate. 

First project deals with comparing 2 algorithms under a topic such as KMeans. Just write a good report and submit early. 

Second project deals with data mining - such as appying apriori algorithm, then implement your own method to determine a user's next action based on data. This can be difficult if you want to apply techniques such as Transformers / LSTM. Recommend to do this project early at the start.

## Tips to Do Well

The quiz is somewhat okay, but due to the nature and structure of the questions it's quite easy to unfairly lose alot of marks easily. If I'm not wrong the average is around 19/30. The project is a 5-6 member group project and can be quite tough, where you have to prep and train multiple models on some datasets. The most tricky part is that it's sequential, so you have to wait for your groupmate to finish their part before you can start yours, which is concerning with the tight timeframe allocated. The exam is a toss-up, where the range of content that can be tested is quite huge, so it's very easy to be not able to remember certain concepts, especially when the question is tweaked significantly.

*Written by JT*
