---
id: mh2100
sidebar_position: 4
title: MH2100 - Calculus III
---





import ModuleRatingsSummary from '@site/src/components/ModuleRatingsSummary';

<ModuleRatingsSummary 
  lectureClarity={5}
  contentRelevance={4}
  contentDifficulty={4}
  overallWorkload={3}
  teamDependency={1}
/>

## Course Summary

Advanced math module on calculus covering all the way from differentiation to triple and surface integrals, but no ODE or PDE. Lecturer at the time of taking the course in AY24/25 S1 was Leonard Huang, who has mixed reviews. I personally ENJOYED Leonard's lectures, and I think he made things very digestible, although he does cover some things in more details than required when it comes to definitions, but I've also heard, quote-for-quote from some SPMS students that they felt he's 'pedantic' and 'downright the worst lecturer they've had'. Well honestly, I would say they're just not diligent. Content can get tough and confusing at times, but as with most modules, you just need to keep up with the workload, to stay afloat.

This course covers calculus in 3 dimensions and thus includes content on Vectors, Vector fields and Coordinate Change.

The content covered is:

1. Vectors
2. Limits
3. Continuity
4. Partial Derivatives
5. Tangent Planes
6. Differentiability
7. Linear Approximations
8. Directional Derivative
9. Gradient Vector
10. Critical Points
11. Lagrange Multipliers
12. Coordinate Change
13. Plane Transformation
14. Line Integrals
15. Surface Integrals
    1. Scalar Field
    2. Vector Field
16. Curl
17. Stoke's Theorem

## Workload

Very manageable, 3 hour lecture split into 1 and 2, and a 1 hour tutorial each week. I spent around 2 hours each week doing a tutorial.

## Projects

2 tests (25%) each and 50% exam. Best workload distribution with no projects is amazing.

## Tips to Do Well

Just make sure you're following lectures closely and doing the tutorials and you should be fine. Do follow instructions in the tests and exams closely as you can get penalised for doing things 'your own way'.

*Written by DMU*
