---
id: sc2079
sidebar_position: 4
title: SC2079 - Multidisciplinary Design Project
---

import ModuleRatingsSummary from '@site/src/components/ModuleRatingsSummary';

<ModuleRatingsSummary 
  lectureClarity={2}
  contentRelevance={5}
  contentDifficulty={5}
  overallWorkload={5}
  teamDependency={5}
/>

## Course Summary

The mandatory project that strikes fear into the hearts of many CCDS-ians. You are given a mechanical car and a task to navigate around dynamically placed obstacles.
Workload is typically distributed as: STM (the hardware), Raspberry Pi (mainly communications), Algorithm, Android (remote control) and Image Recognition.

## Workload

This project has a very high workload, especially if you don't have a good team. The course only allocates a 2-hour lab time for team meeting and group members will have to put in work outside of the allocated timing. The workload ends after week 10 when the video is uploaded.
There is also a quiz consisting of content that you "should know" by week 7, you can typically bring in course content (such as slides or manuals) but it may not be that helpful.

## Projects

As of AY2024/2025, the tasks are as follow:
1. Navigate through a maze and recognize images placed on obstacles. Obstacles are manually entered on the Android tablet.
2. Navigate through a set obstacle as quickly as possible without touching any obstacle. The location of one obstacle is dynamic and needs to be detected using sensors.
3. Create a video documenting the process that you did the 2 above tasks.

## Tips to Do Well

Consider your recess week forfeit and dedicate it to this project, find a good location to test and run it multiple times. The time given is already relatively cramped and procrastination will cost you your grade.
Check that all the hardware provided work as intended as thoroughly as possible. You do not want to be fine-tuning based on faulty hardware.

*Written by CWX*
